title: [Minimal Mac: What's in your Simplenote?](http://minimalmac.com/post/1014631828/whats-in-your-simplenote)
date: 2010-08-27
time: 22:21:00+0000
tumblr: 1021781469
tumblrType: link
%%%

Patrick Rhone is asking on Minimal Mac: What’s in your Simplenote? I give [Notational Velocity](http://notational.net/) and [Simplenote](http://simplenoteapp.com/) equal credit for storing my notes. 

I make notes on all sorts of things. One important exception is tasks to do. These tend to go on my whiteboard. 

Notes are sorted by modification date. Here are a few things from the top of the list:

- Things I have done today. Nothing deep here: just a list. Not full sentences. One note covers one day, but I don’t mind if I miss a day. These notes’ titles are prefixed by “Done: ” so today is “Done: 27 August 2010”. 
- Log of when I have restarted my MacBook Pro with reasons. I had to restart it today as it failed to go into sleep properly. 
- My MacBook Pro’s boot time (about ninety seconds including password typing). This is so I have something to compare to if I buy a SSD.
- Research on SSDs that might be worth looking into, including links to product pages and Amazon. 
- Record of WiFi signal strengths measured around the house. I recently moved our base station and now it covers most of the house.
- Details for my driving theory test. I copied lots of text off the website when I was doing the online registration, then summarised the important information, which went in my calendar at the end. (I use over-the-air syncing between my Mac and iPhone calendars powered by Google Calendar.)
- Thoughts on Simplenote 3
- My Favourite iPhone App Icons

I store some Tumblr posts and drafts, prefixed by “Tumblrpost: ” and “Tumblrdraft: ”. However, the most recent Tumblr related note is my [wasp video](/post/976971399) from over a week ago. I rename these notes after posting to change the prefix. No important drafts go here as there is no guarantee I will go back and look. I repeat: no to-dos in my notes. 

There is a very special note call “Impulsive Thoughts”. If I am on my Mac doing work and have a thought unrelated to the work: I press F11 to summon Notational Velocity; I type “imp” then enter; I write my thought then press F11 again and go back to work. Any possible tasks in this note are unimportant. Here are some of these thoughts:

- why are there loads of = signs in .eml email files
- Stitcher, Listening app for iPhone. 
- Preview ignores crop box in full screen
- how does Google serve the images on a search results page as a single image?
- Opera’s use of find in page to navigate by typing is awesome
- Apple Mac HIG — should second terms in hyphenated words be capital. Safari > Dev > Site-specific Hacks

(Reblogged from [Minimal Mac](https://minimalmac.com/post/1014631828/whats-in-your-simplenote))
