title: [Apple launches subscriptions on their app store](http://www.apple.com/pr/library/2011/02/15appstore.html)
date: 2011-02-16T01:05:21+0000
tumblr: 3313939068
tumblrType: link
%%%

> …with one-click, customers pick the length of subscription…

> …customers can easily subscribe with one-click right in the app.

All this talk about clicking is bothering, because I assume this is about iOS devices, which are *tapped*. I have to assume, as the release doesn't mention iOS until right at the end, and then it's not directly about the new subscription service. Does ‘The App Store’ refer to the Mac App Store too?

>  In addition, publishers may no longer provide links in their apps (to a web site, for example) which allow the customer to purchase content or subscriptions outside of the app.

I see the keyword as ‘content’. In a press release all about subscriptions, why is this in here? As I understand it, this means Amazon technically not able to sell books through the iOS Kindle app, now going via Safari is forbidden. They can't use in-app purchases as it is said to not scale to the size Amazon needs. There must be more to come.

> Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world, along with OS X, iLife, iWork, and professional software. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store. Apple is reinventing the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, and has recently introduced its magical iPad which is defining the future of mobile media and computing devices.

This needs updating. Isn't the digital music revolution over? I think Apple has reinvented the mobile phone. It's done.
