title: [Skinning the frog - iPad definitely a threat to Windows](http://frogboy.impulsedriven.net/article/382461/iPad_definitely_a_threat_to_Windows)
date: 2010-06-03
time: 17:37:40+0000
tumblr: 660546316
tumblrType: link
%%%

Sorry for linking back to an old article, but I wanted to comment on this piece from three weeks ago.

#### Point 1: Instant on

> It just works. I want to check email, look at my schedule for the day, look at Facebook, view something on YouTube, check out some news headlines, or just watch a movie, the iPad (and future devices of its class) are just much more convenient.

> I love my ThinkPad T400. But when I go to it, I have to pray whether it’ll come out of sleep. If it does come out of sleep, it’ll be slow.

I don’t find I have this problem with my MacBook Pro. I agree on the convenience aspect though.

#### Point 2: Speed

> Similar to #1, I can check my email, look at my various RSS feeds and scan my schedule in less than 30 seconds.

That is pretty fast. However, I doubt you can actually read anything in that time. This is a mixed bag: NetNewsWire for iPhone launches much fast than NetNewsWire for Mac but Simplenote feels more like Notational Slug than Velocity. Quıcĸsıɩⅴεʀ also makes things move fast. Desktop apps *could* be much faster than iPhone and iPad apps but I think it is true that they often are not.

#### Point 3: The App store

> A lot of cool little programs are being made because developers can actually get paid for making cool stuff.

I agree.

#### Links

- [NetNewsWire](http://netnewswireapp.com/)
- [Notational Velocity](http://notational.net/)
- [Simplenote](http://simplenoteapp.com/)
