title: [Old Article: John Gruber’s iPhone 4 Review](http://daringfireball.net/2010/06/4)
date: 2010-07-29T20:01:00+0000
tumblr: 876402495
tumblrType: link
%%%

This is very late but I have comments on two bits from John Gruber’s iPhone 4 Review at Daring Fireball.

First, where he quotes [his iPhone 3G review](http://daringfireball.net/2008/10/iphone_3g):

> Apple sometimes seems to be the lone consumer electronics company that pays any attention at all to the tactile response of buttons.

Nintendo pays a lot of attention. Probably the other games console producers as well but Nintendo definitely does. I dislike using anything but a Nintendo designed d-pad (the ‘+’ shaped thing). 

Also, regarding FaceTime and its audio quality:

> The difference is so stark that it makes me wish FaceTime could kick in for audio-only calls between FaceTime-capable phones.

I wish that too. It makes sense to use the wireless communications system with the highest capacity and lowest power consumption: not financial sense for mobile network operators, but all other types of sense. 

Any why just FaceTime-capable devices. I can not see any reason why iPhone 3G and 3GS should not make audio calls over WiFi when possible. I mean calls from the standard Phone app; Skype does this already, of course. 

Please Apple, we’d love to distance ourselves from mobile phone carriers wherever possible. 

See Gruber’s [FaceTime and the iPod Touch](http://daringfireball.net/2010/06/facetime_ipod_touch) piece for more on the future of communications. 
